In this lecture, we're going to be looking more into polymorphism, how inheritance works and considerations
to take into account when reusing functions between the parent and the child classes.
So as we still don't have things like the concept of damage or health implemented, some of this will
be planning ahead like we've done in the past, and mostly just declaring the functions for use later
so that we can update these if I use case changes along the way.
So at this point, we should already be fairly familiar with the basic concepts of inheritance.
You've seen this before.
We've also had a look at how things like the Poons are deriving from actors and actors, from objects,
each of which have been able to access and share variables and functionality between their parent classes.
So we now need to consider how we can use this in our own custom classes, and we can do this by revisiting
our end goal for our working game.
We already know that we want our turrets and tanks to be able to fire at each other.
And to do this, they both need to be able to look at or rotate towards that targets.
And when these conditions are met and the damage has been provided or taken past a certain threshold,
both of these will need a functionality to be destroyed or removed from play.
So this is a simple game that's pretty much the entire cycle of the core gameplay loop.
And from that, we can extract three Shadd functionalities.
So that would be the turret rotation.
The firing event and the destruction of the classes.
So we can therefore safely begin declaring these in the base class, knowing that all of this will be
required by the child classes.
A little bit later on.
So each of these functions then should be in their protected section.
So we'll create that.
First of all, I'll start with the rotate function, which will be of type void.
And although the tank and the turret operate slightly, definitely from each other, that the tank is
able to move around and the turret will be completely stationary, the target for the rotation will
still be the same for both.
And that's going to be that they're attempting to look at a certain location and locations.
Of course, it just represented by F effectors.
So for the tank, that will be the location of the mice in the world space, which is something that
we'll be able to do using some clever functionality housed within the player control class.
And for the turret, that will obviously be the location of the tank itself.
So for this, we can pass in an argument of type F a vector named look at Target.
This will allow us to cool this from both of the classes and then the parent function doesn't really
care or need to know what the target is.
It will just use that effect of this being passed in and work out the calculations and what it needs
to do.
Based on that argument, next, then we'll have our firing functionality.
So again, we're going to create another void function.
This one, our name.
Fire.
This is going to be very simple.
This function will just create a projectile.
When we have the projectile class implemented and launch that in the direction that the turret is currently
facing.
Whilst the implementation here is very simplistic, if you wanted to add some extra flexibility, you
could come back and add things into the function arguments to account for things such as the type of
projectile to fire at the number of projectiles per shot and things like that, very similar to how
we have the override in our rotate function for this game.
No.
Each class would just be firing one projectile type and that's going to be the single projectile.
Class will be creating again a little bit later.
So the final function then we're going to aim for the base class is something to control how the PWN
reacts when destroyed.
So a create a void here named Handal Destruction.
This one's going to be slightly different in that we're going to add a virtual declaration before the
void.
So before doing this, we're just gonna take a look at when and why we might want to do this.
So first, I'm going to create one additional function that we won't be keeping in the project.
Again, don't feel as though you need to follow along as I will be making some offscreen compilations
this time as the go has to see the results and not necessarily the implementation, because we'll be
making very similar implementation for the functions we will be keeping.
So I'm going to create a void function named test in the base class and create the implementation.
And then the first thing to be aware of is that to call a function from the parent class in a child
class, the virtu and override specifies that we'll be looking at are completely optional, essentially,
at least to a certain extent, again, which we will see through the tests.
I'll be making.
So to demonstrate this, I'll create a temporary log file in the base class.
Then I'll implement these same function of the same name in the taht class with its own new and unique
output log.
Then do something that you've probably already seen, even if you weren't quite sure what was happening.
And that's to override the function call.
This means to call the base function version whilst adding additional functionality to it.
To do this, we first include our call to super test, which is just calling the function on the base
class.
Then in this class, I'll add another log specifying that this was also called.
By the tart's this time when I mentioned that you would have seen this before.
Anytime that you've implemented a begin play or take function, as we have here, we're calling these
supercool, which again will filter back up through the base classes, through the use of those functions
in that porn and actor implementations.
Olufsen need to call this function on the begin play just to make sure that this function is being fired.
And then back in the other side, like I've mentioned, already recomposed this night.
And we can see that when I press play, the output log is displaying both logs, confirming that we
can indeed override a function without these specifiers.
So now let's go back and have a look at why we might want to use them.
So the first thing would be to go to our toric class and in the function, have to let the system know
that this is intended to be an override function from the base class.
You'd normally at this, as you've seen, but not for a functionality requirement, but more as to avoid
ambiguity.
This is more just let the system know to look for a function of the same name in the parent class rather
than immediately trying to create a new function named test.
So if we compile this now, this is where we start needing them to include the virtual specifiers to
make virtual functions.
And this is because if we have something in the child class which is classed as an overwritten function,
we'll be met with an error stating that we're trying to override a function that can override anything
in the base class.
And that's because functions by default are not virtual.
And again, this is where the virtual specify comes in.
So when I go back over to our base class, adding the virtual specify into the base function then is
what lets us change the functionality in our base class.
So that change made if we compile this again, this one will be successful.
And the results in the editor with that compilation changed is exactly the same.
So what this is now really doing is is just saying in the base class, when I specifying that at some
point we're expecting this function to be overridden by a child class, then in the child class with
specifying that the test function is not intended to be a new function created at runtime, but an override
of an existing version in the parent class.
So as a general rule, we're also going to add a virtual specify to the front of our function in the
taht class as well.
We've already seen that it technically isn't required.
This helps us avoid making silly mistakes, accidentally changing a function types or implementation
in the base class and not accounting for it in child classes, because the compiler will now know that
we'll be looking for a function of the same type with the same implementation in the base class, and
it will give us completion errors and things.
If this is changing again, mostly this is to avoid development errors.
If you forget this in the future, if somebody else starts picking up your work and doesn't know what
to look out for function in the child class without these specifiers, then they could just go ahead
and completely change some functionality into base class, not accounting for it, and get again and
get away with the errors if we don't have the specifies included.
Meaning that the child class may stop calling the correct functionality or not have that fight a.
So we could sit and talk theory on subjects like this for pretty much an entire section.
This is going to be more of a high level look at this type of thing and some will be going into more
of the system specific theory in his section.
So we're gonna go back into implementing our logic now as this will start kind of piecing together as
well as we flesh out our classes and start utilizing these concepts.
So the first thing I do is quickly remove these test functions.
Then in the base class, we should now put a virtual specify in front of our handle destruction function,
as this will be the function that will be overwritten or added to in the child classes later for the
fire and the rotate functions.
These will just be called and implement the base functionality without any other additions or overrides.
So we don't need to add these here and put this into context.
Let's go and define these functions and kind of coincide.
What we expect each of the functions to be doing first time for the rotate tasks.
We're just going to be updating the rotation of the turret match to look at the look at target, which
is being passed in from the child classes.
This is very simple and the argument is being passed in is the function to be used by both of the child
classes in exactly the same way without needing to override anything then for the final function?
This is fairly similar.
Both of the child porn classes already inherit the projectile spawn point component.
So again, this function will already have access to the location and the rotation in the world that
will be relevant to firing the projectile.
And then the only other thing that it will need to do will be to create a new actor of the type of projectile
at the given transform.
And again, nothing here will differ between the two child classes.
So we can just call this function as we would any other from the child classes remembering as long as
they're in the correct access space, which is either going to be protected or public, preferably as
we've done here, protected, as we don't need these exposed to external classes, but it will be useful
in the child classes or necessary in the child classes.
Then finally, we have our handle destruction function and this will be a little bit more complex.
So first we have these things I think both classes will be likely to require.
And that is to show you the visualization of them being destroyed.
This be things such as the particles signed and the camera shake.
And this is something that both of the classes will implement.
So we've defined these in here and run these in the base class.
However, because I know the game mode, we'll be tracking how many toric classes remain when a turret
porn is destroyed.
We want to cool the game mode to notify it, which is something the player class won't need to do when
that is destroyed.
So we can start seeing some unique logic and functionality that will be useful to override in the child
classes.
Another difference is that the target classes can just use the default destroy function, which will
completely remove it from the level.
However, the player class, we don't really want to use that.
Instead, we want to hide all of its visual components and disable the movement.
And this is because if we destroy the player class, we lose our camera and ends up with some pretty
hard jumps to a default camera created in the level.
And this is to do with the way that the play controller and the zest porn works in unroll in general.
And again, that kind of leads us to adding some unique override logic so that the tank class will be
hidden rather than completely removed.
So this was quite a lot of theoretical work and planning in this lecture, but it puts us in a really
good position to see how the child classes can use these in the next lecture.
And we also now have the main porn functionality, at least defined and ready to come back to and implement
as we go through the project.